---
title: "Why Backup M365? Uncovering the Essential Need for Microsoft 365 Backup"
collection: reposts
permalink: /reposts/2023-10-28-Why-Backup-M365
excerpt: 'Why backup M365? Uncovering the essential need for Microsoft 365 backup.'
date: 2023-10-28
venue: 'Veeam'
paperurl: '[http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf](https://www.veeam.com/blog/momentum-office-365-backup.html)'
citation: 'Watson, E., & Watson, E. (2023, August 28). Why backup M365? Uncovering the essential need for Microsoft 365 backup. Veeam Software Official Blog. https://www.veeam.com/blog/momentum-office-365-backup.html'
---

## Introduction
Today’s enterprises are increasingly reliant on cloud services, such as Microsoft 365, for efficient collaboration and productivity. But the looming question remains – should you backup Microsoft 365 data? There are many opinions — as well as misconceptions — on this topic, but in this blog, we will help you separate facts from  fiction so you can make an informed decision on whether to protect this data.

## Importance of Microsoft 365 Backup
Contrary to popular belief, your data in the cloud isn’t immune to loss. It’s susceptible to the same risks that your on-premises data faces. This makes backing up your Microsoft 365 data not just an afterthought, but a business-critical necessity. The criticality of Microsoft 365 applications is only increasing as organizations expand their usage of SharePoint Online and Microsoft Teams. So, the need to have a backup of Microsoft 365 data is also increasing. Microsoft has announced they are developing their own Microsoft 365 backup solution, so this in itself proves it is a priority.

## Unmasking the Truth About Microsoft 365 Backup
So, why is it so important? Doesn’t Microsoft already protect my Microsoft 365 data? Microsoft provides many great compliance tools to ensure your data is retained over a set period of time, they also ensure infrastructure uptime for service availability. However, it’s vital to recognize the distinction between these features and a comprehensive backup solution. The responsibility of protecting your data ultimately lies in your hands, and not entirely on Microsoft. What are all the helpful built-in tools and how do they differ from a backup? [Read more here]([url](https://www.veeam.com/blog/native-office-365-backup-capabilities-versus-third-party-backup.html)).

## Microsoft’s Responsibility vs. Your Responsibility
Microsoft has provided a Shared Responsibility Model to help their customers understand where Microsoft’s responsibility ends and theirs begins. The model clearly displays that the responsibility of protecting your data ultimately lies in your hands, and not in Microsoft’s. So, what does Microsoft provide? Microsoft is responsible for maintaining the infrastructure of its services, ensuring it’s accessible and protected from service-side issues. They are also responsible for many other elements — learn more about the [Shared Responsibility Model]([url](https://www.veeam.com/blog/office365-shared-responsibility-model.html)).

## 7 Reasons Why Backing Up M365 Is Critical
The need for backing up Microsoft 365 data goes beyond recovering lost or deleted files. Here are seven compelling reasons why Microsoft 365 backup is critical:

* Accidental deletion: accidental deletion, modification or overwrites of data can be catastrophic. With a backup solution, you can quickly recover lost data and maintain business continuity.
* Retention policy gaps and confusion: Microsoft’s retention policies can be complex to understand and implement correctly, leaving your data at risk of loss after the retention period expires.
* Internal security threats: the risk of internal threats, like disgruntled employees deleting essential data, is real and can’t be ignored. A backup solution provides a safeguard in these situations.
* External security threats: malware and ransomware can do significant damage to your organization’s data and reputation. Regular backups ensure an uninfected copy of your data is always available for recovery.
* Legal and compliance requirements: a robust backup solution can keep your company out of legal trouble by allowing you to retrieve data as required for legal and compliance purposes.
* Managing hybrid email deployments and migrations: the right Microsoft 365 backup solution should be able to handle hybrid email deployments, making the source location irrelevant.
* Teams data structure: the Microsoft Teams backend is much more complex than many realize. With this added layer of complexity, ensuring that data is adequately protected is paramount.

For a deep dive on each of these seven critical reasons, please read this [Special Report]([url](https://www.veeam.com/wp-why-backup-office-365-data.html)).

## Frequency of Data Loss Incidents
Data loss incidents are far too common. In a recent study by ESG, 53% of IT professionals admitted their organizations had experienced data loss or corruption in their SaaS applications. It’s worth noting that less than 25% of organizations are able to recover 100% of their Microsoft 365 data during a data loss incident, making the need for backup all the more pertinent.

## Why Choose Veeam for Microsoft 365 Backup
Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365 is the #1 Microsoft 365 backup solution in market, protecting 16 million Microsoft 365 users. It is designed to provide comprehensive protection for your Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business and Microsoft Teams data, so that it’s always protected and accessible. With Veeam, you also get the backup flexibility you need to meet your recovery point objectives, recover Microsoft 365 data no matter what data loss scenario you encounter and leverage any storage target your organization wants to utilize for its backup data. But don’t take our word for it, hear what ESG had to say in their recent technical review of Veeam Backup for Microsoft 365, [read the review]([url](https://go.veeam.com/agile-microsoft-365-data-protection)).

## Conclusion
Backing up Microsoft 365 data is a smart business decision. It’s clear that there are many misconceptions, but it’s also evident that there are many vulnerabilities and data loss risks which can only be truly mitigated by having a backup. Moreover, the Shared Responsibility Model states that ultimately, it’s your data — you control it — and it is your responsibility to protect it. Make sure you protect Microsoft 365 data with a comprehensive backup solution that provides the data security, data recovery and data freedom you need.
